all we really need to know before
starting is that there are two types of
flash file that were likely to come
across when we're building websites and
these are both in my upsets father here
we have the dot SWF file and the dot FLV
file now these FLV files are
specifically flash video files what you
see on YouTube and MySpace and other
video sites and then pretty much all
other flash files are going to be dot
SWF and it's this dot SWF that we want
to add into our super Jam index page and
I've left this space here in order to do
that so let's make sure that our cursors
clicked and we've got our cursor
flashing inside this table cell and then
what we want to do is to come up to the
common tab on the insert bar and just
pull down the flush menu and it's the
very first option flash but we want to
be selective and that brings us into our
site root folder and I'm just inside my
assets folder here and it's the flash
logo which is the dot SWF I want to be
adding in so we say okay here we at this
dialog box pop-up and this is pretty
much the same as the alt text for images
what we're doing is we're adding
accessibility for visually impaired
users so they all know what this two
animations doing and so essentially Paul
will say is logo animation and that
should be fairly self-explanatory
let me say ok and we can see that
Dreamweavers now automatically inserted
that into my page now if you find when
Dreamweaver inserts an object but it
breaks up your tables a little bit like
this all it is is its uncollapse the
table so we'll just click into one of
the other table cells and then if we can
find the little line between them just
click on that and you'll see that
Dreamweaver tree collapses all of the
cells
so let's click on this flash object now
and look down at the property inspector
we can see here that Dreamweavers
already put the width and the height
attributes in for us so that means that
during me was able to auto detect the
dimensions for a dot SWF file and
they've also got a couple of options
down here we've got autoplay and loop
and they're fairly self-explanatory if
we check the autoplay box but it means
that the SWF file will play as soon as
the browser opens and if we choose the
check the loop box that means that the
Esther earphone constantly repeats
itself every time it finishes playing
now it is possible to preview this SWF
file inside Dreamweaver but we need to
use this play button down here and what
we can see is the SWF file plays through
if I just stop that you'll see it goes
back to the placeholder for the flash
and I prefer to always view this in a
browser just to make sure that
everything's lining up properly so let's
preview that in Firefox
and we can see that that played straight
away because we have autoplay selected
and it seems to be playing fine
so let's jump back over into Dreamweaver
now if you want to insert a Flash movie
or the FLV file and the process is
slightly different but it's still very
easy so I'm just gonna pull up a new
blank page that I've created here
there's absolutely nothing in here it's
just in order to show you how to put
this FLV file in it's a different size
to the SWF file so it's not gonna fit
inside the area that I've left here so
I'm just gonna stick it in a new blank
page for you and because this time we're
putting an FLV file a flash video far
when we come up to the common tab
instead of selecting flash we need to
select flash video and that brings up
our inserting flash video dialog box and
the first option here is video type we
get a choice between streaming it
straight from the web or a progressive
download video which means that it will
default download onto the user's
computer and then play the flash file
from there and that way you're not going
to get skipping all pauses if there's a
lot of traffic on their network or on
your website so I always go for
progressive download video then we
browse for the location of our Flash
movie which is on our assets folder
flash moving and then we get a choice of
skin now all this is is a preset bunch
of players with different looks that
enables us to play pause stop and to
adjust the audio of this FLV farm when
it's playing in the browser window and
as default Dreamweaver gives you a
choice between a clear skin Korona skin
and the halo skin and these are fairly
standard control bars the only thing I
will point out that we've got one two
and three versions of each of the skins
and that's got a minimum width so
basically what we're saying here is if
your movie is a hundred and sixty-one
wide you wouldn't be able to use clear
skin one which you can see is a very
narrow control bar too much wider and
three wider still now it's quite a wide
movie here so I'm gonna go through there
clear skin I'm gonna go for the third
option now but I can't actually remember
exactly what the width and the height of
my movie is so Dreamweavers got this
great little function here where we can
detect the size and by clicking that we
get the width of full
48 and the height of 337
now the thing is that I know that the
height of my file isn't 337 but what's
happened is Dreamweaver has actually
added an additional bit of space onto
the bounding box to give us a total size
including this player skin that will be
shown at the bottom and then we can
decide whether we want this to
automatically play when we open the
browser window and more importantly
there's an option down here at the
bottom where we can prompt users to
download the Flash Player if they
haven't got it installed and we can also
create our own personalized message that
we can type in here that we want those
non Flash users to see
so let's hit okay and let's insert this
into our page
so we've got our flash placeholder
inserted into our blank document here
and unfortunately we don't have a play
button with the FLV files there's no way
of previewing these inside of
Dreamweaver we can only preview these in
a browser but before I go over to a
browser just draw your attention over
here into the files panel and you'll see
that we've got two new files if yours
don't appear here just hit the refresh
button and they'll pop up and what we've
got is two SWF files so these are also
flash files but they're not an FLV file
they're an SWF file and the reason for
this is that most browsers can't play a
FLV file they requires some kind of
interface so what we've created by using
clear skin three is our shuttle bar
essentially our control bar is to create
an SWF file of that and also
Dreamweavers created an FLV player so it
will be able to play the FLV through the
SWF extension inside the browser window
now it might sound complicated but it's
a lot easier getting Dreamweaver to
write this for you than trying to write
it yourself
so what we can do now is we can preview
this in a browser window
and that we can see a flash FLV movie
playing fine and this is our control bar
that we've added on the bottom and we
can pause the movie play it again we can
also shuttle backwards and forwards in
the movie and we also have the option to
increase and decrease the volume
obviously there's no sound on this movie
so that's not going to have any effect
here but as we can see the FLV is
playing fine a flash movies playing
great and that's all there is to adding
Flash content to your site so let's move
on in the next tutorial to adding sound
and other types of movies